---
title: 1. Introduction
description: What is Open Tale really about?
---

# 1. Introduction

## 1.1. What is Open Tale?

Open Tale is not a game per se... it's a system to build stories with. What this
means is that the GM and the players are free to compose their own atmosphere.
For instance: when players are creating their characters, they can go in as much
detail as they like, be it in terms of personality of physical appearance.
However, this website focuses as much as possible on the system itself, leaving
the rest for your imagination.

Although Open Tale focuses on providing a fair system with interesting
mathematical unfoldings, there must be a strong commitment to simplicity,
dynamism and flexibility. When we're gathered around a table to play RPGs, we
want to be amazed by innovative stories and epic battles. We want to feel the
impact of great challenges. We want to laugh and be surprised.

Such emotions require a certain timing that can easily be lost if the players
have to constantly check the ruleset to make sure that nobody is breaking the
system. As opposed to that, Open Tale is aligned with a call for uninterruptible
fun.

To accomplish that, there is a key aspect that the GM should be mindful during
gameplay: **every roll matters**. This principle was well emphasized in [Open
Legend][openlegend] - the initial source of inspiration for Open Tale - and it
makes total sense.

Rolls have two fundamental purposes in Open Tale:

* Resolve *conflicts of interests* between characters;
* Surpass challenges proposed by the GM.

So, for example, if a character is attacking another, there exists a conflict of
interest regarding the damage that can be dealt. Or if a character is trying to
pick the lock of a treasure chest, the GM needs to define the minimum score to
open it.

It is recommended for the GM to lead the story in a way that every roll matters.
In other words, failing at challenges should not result in empty outcomes. "So I
try to open it again...", how fun is that? Instead, try to lead the party to
unexpected situations as in "You hear the lock crack open, but you feel the rise
of an intimidating presence behind you" or "You hear a strange sound coming from
the lock and now you're unable to manouver it because it's completely stuck".
When success is rewarded and failure has no trade-off, it feels dull and
mechanical.

## 1.2. Why Open Tale?

#### Free, open source and collaborative

First of all, Open Tale is **completely** open source. *But why a software
license instead of a gaming license?* you might ask. Good question! The reason
is that the content of Open Tale can be understood as *code*: more specifically,
[markdown files on Github][docs]. So anyone can literally download it, modify
and publish a new version, a right guaranteed by the [Apache License 2.0]
[apache].

Also, the fact that it's open source makes it easier for the community to build
it together. Discussions and different points of view are enriching if we aim
high, try different ideas and express how it felt.

#### Unified distance unit system

Although using *feet* as the standard unit for distances is very common, not
everyone is familiar with it. Thus, instead of using *ft* for distances, Open
Tale uses *du*, which means "distance unit".

The distance of 1 du can be understood as one square or one hexagon on crafted
maps. Therefore, 1 du can also be converted to 5 feet or approximately 1.5
meters.

#### Quick resolve

Events in Open Tale resolve very quickly, which makes it a lot easier for the
players and the GM to keep track of what's happening. This aspect of the system
mitigates cases in which we forget to add this or subtract that due to something
that happened ages ago. It's a way to free memory and focus on the present
moment.

Conflicts that resolve quickly also bring another element into gameplay:
**dynamism**. No good or bad option is either good or bad forever. This
encourages the players to stay tunned and always reassess their choices.

#### A raceless and classless system

You're free to build a character the way you want. Why does the wizard always
have to be the wisest or the smartest one? Now you can create a super erudite
orc who shoots bows and reads a book a day. Fighters and even magicians can be
highly mobile. You're also free to come up with an entirely new race if the GM
agrees!

Character customization in Open Tale is inspired by [Ragnarok Online][ragnarok],
with skills and attributes that increase their potential. Therefore you just
need to plan out the attributes, the skills and, of course, the personality that
will compose your character. The more Open Tale matures, the more possibilities
will be available.

That being said, [let's get started!](02-characters)

[openlegend]: https://openlegendrpg.com
[docs]: https://github.com/open-tale/open-tale.github.io/tree/master/_docs
[apache]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[ragnarok]: http://playragnarok.com/
