---
title: 3. Perks
description: Extra abilities for gameplay
---

# 3. Perks

#### Thirst for Blood

If an attack made with a close-range weapon brings the target's HP down to 0,
the player may choose another target. Upon choosing it, the character moves
towards it and, if possible, attacks it with another close-range attack.

The path towards the new target must be the shortest known one. The score for
the movement range is calculated with a new roll for Motion and the damage dealt
to the new target is equal to the excess of damage dealt to the previous one,
piercing the new target's Defense.

#### Dash Attack

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving towards it,
the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Side Slash

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving from a cell
that is adjacent to that target to another cell that is also adjacent to that
target, the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Vengeful Scar

On the first turn after getting hit by a long-range attack, the character gets
1 extra point for Motion rolls if moving towards the attacker through the
shortest known path.

#### Confident Blow

On the first turn after completely defending an attack from a target, when
attacking that same target, the character gets 1 extra point on the final score
of the roll.

#### Made of Stone

Upon completelly defending an attack, the character's Defense is increased by 1
point until it gets hit or the combat ends.

#### The Running Shooter

The character can move and attack with a long-range weapon at the same time if
the attack requires a roll for Dexterity. To do so, roll for Motion and then
roll for Dexterity. Choose the character's destination, the cell from which the
character will shoot and the target.

#### Deadly Tower

If the character hasn't moved since the last attack with a long-range weapon,
other attacks made with a long-range weapon will have 1 extra point of damage.
This effect only wears off upon moving.

#### True Sight

Adds

#### V-Shooter

The character becomes able to hit different targets that aren't necessarily
positioned in a straight line. The maximum angle allowed is 90Â°.

#### Inner Confidence

Uppon succeeding on a challenge after rolling for Persuasion, the character gets
1 extra point on the final score when rolling for Persuasion again.

#### Genius

You may roll for Intellect on challenges that otherwise require rolls for
Volition.

#### Advocate

When rolling for Persuasion, add half of the character's Intellect to the final
score. If the Intellect level is odd, add 1 to it before dividing by 2.

#### Manipulator

You may roll for Malice on challenges that otherwise require rolls for
Deception.
