---
title: 4. Perks
description: Extra abilities for gameplay
---

# 4. Perks

## 4.1. Close-range combat

#### Thirst for Blood

If an attack made with a close-range weapon brings the target's HP down to 0,
the player may choose another target. Upon choosing it, the character moves
towards it and, if possible, attacks it with another close-range attack.

The path towards the new target must be the shortest known one. The score for
the movement range is calculated with a new roll for Motion and the damage dealt
to the new target is equal to the excess of damage dealt to the previous one,
piercing the new target's Defense.

#### Dash Attack

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving towards it,
the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Side Slash

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving from a cell
that is adjacent to that target to another cell that is also adjacent to that
target, the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Vengeful Scar

On the first turn after getting hit by a long-range attack, the character gets
1 extra point for Motion rolls if moving towards the attacker through the
shortest known path.

#### Confident Blow

On the first turn after completely defending an attack from a target, when
attacking that same target, apply the Superiority roll modifier.

#### Made of Stone

Upon completelly defending an attack, the character's Defense is increased by 1
point until it gets hit or the combat ends.

#### Die Hard

If the character's health is below one third of its maximum Health Points, add
one third of its Strength to the character's Defense.

## 4.2. Long-range combat

### 4.2.1. Dexterity perks

#### The Running Shooter

The character can move and attack with a long-range weapon at the same time. To
do so, roll for Motion and then roll for Dexterity. Choose the character's
destination, the cell from which the character will shoot and the target.

#### Deadly Tower

If the character hasn't moved since the last attack with a long-range weapon,
when performing an attack with a long-range weapon, add 1 extra point to the
final score of the roll. This (cummulative) effect only wears off upon moving.

#### Sharp Shooter

The character becomes able to attack more than 1 target at the same time without
applying Disadvantage or Inferiority roll modifiers.

#### True Sight

When attacking with a long-range weapon, the maximum range limit is increased by
half of the character's Dexterity. If the character's Dexterity is odd, add 1 to
it before dividing by 2.

### 4.2.2. Magicy perks

#### Urgent Healer

When casting Heal on a target who's below one third of its total Health Points,
apply the Superiority modifier.

#### Source of Health

When dice explosions happen on rolls to cast Heal, half of the total exploded
score can be used to heal someone else within the Heal range. If the total
exploded score is odd, add 1 to it before dividing by 2.

This second healing does not count as a cast of Heal.

#### Brave Medic

When casting Heal on someone else from a distance of 1m, add one third of the
character's Magicy to the amount healed.

#### Dispellary

When successfully dispelling a mark, the character becomes able to dispell
another mark whose level is lesser than the first one's. This second mark
dispell does not serve as a successfull mark dispell to trigger Dispellary.

#### Dispell Mastery

When dispelling a mark of level *X*, reaching a skill power of *X* - 1 is enough
to succeed.

#### Divine Bolster

Characters under the effect of your Bolster marks are also blessed with the
Superiority modifier on their rolls for their best attributes.
