---
title: 5. Skills
description: Skills
---

# 5. Skills

## 5.1. Strength-based skills

#### Frenzy

* Hits all characters within a distance of 1m, so **beware of friendly fire**.

* The damage on each victim is equal to the SP minus its Defense. Damage amounts
below 1 have no effect.

* The caster receives a Frenzy mark of level SP, which lasts until the beginning
of its next turn.

* A character with a Frenzy mark loses one point of Defense, Willpower and
Toughness.

#### Bash

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Bash mark of level SP.

* A character with a Bash mark rolls for Motion with the Disadivantage modifier.

* The Bash mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

#### Demoralize

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Willpower, the target gets marked with a
Demoralized mark of level SP.

* A character marked with Demoralized is unable to have explosions on rolls.

* The Demoralized mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

#### Strong Kick

* The maximum range is equal to 1m

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets pushed by a
distance equal to the SP subtracted by the target's Toughness, in meters.

* The path of the push is defined by the kicker.

* If a collision happens, the characters involved in the collision receive 1
damage, each.

* The maximum number of colliding characters is 2.

#### Provoke

* The maximum range is equal to the Strength level, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Willpower, the target gets marked with a
Provoke mark of level SP.

* A character with a Provoke mark isn't be able to target anyone else but the
character who casted Provoke on it.

* A character with a Provoke mark gets Advantage on all of its rolls.

* The Provoke mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

## 5.2. Dexterity-based skills

#### Careless Stab

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the target receives damage
equal to the difference between the SP and the target's Defense with a bonus of
one third of the caster's Dexterity.

* The caster receives a Careless mark of level SP, which lasts until the
beginning of its next turn.

* A character with a Careless mark loses two points of Defense.

#### Crippling Poison

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Crippled mark of level SP.

* A character with a Crippled mark will have the Inferiority modifier applied to
its next rolls for Motion.

* The Crippled mark wears off in the end of the combat.

#### Intoxicating Poison

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Intoxicated mark of level SP.

* A character with an Intoxicated mark will receive 1 damage in the beginning of
each of its turns.

* The Intoxicated mark wears off in the end of the combat.

#### Wound Poison

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Wounded mark of level SP.

* A character with a Wounded mark has all healing effects cut by half. If the
amout that would be healed is odd, add 1 to it before dividing by 2.

* The Wounded mark wears off in the end of the combat.

#### Distract

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Willpower, the target gets marked with a
Distracted mark of level SP.

* A character with a Distracted mark has 1 less point of Willpower.

* The Distracted mark wears off in the beginning of the target's next turn.

#### Expose Weakness

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with
an Exposed mark of level SP.

* A character with an Exposed mark has 1 less point of Defense.

* The Exposed mark wears off in the beginning of the target's next turn.

#### Heavy Shot

* The maximum distance is equal to 10 + Dexterity, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the target receives damage
equal to the difference between the SP and the target's Defense with a bonus of
one third of the caster's Dexterity.

* The caster receives a Heavy mark of level SP, which lasts until the end of its
next turn.

* A character with a Heavy mark is unable to move.

## 5.3. Magicy-based skills

#### Magical Bolt

* The maximum range is equal to 5 + Magicy, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the difference between them
represents the damage done.

#### Magical Bomb

* The maximum range is equal to Magicy, in meters.

* The explosion hits a target and all characters around it, so **beware of
friendly fire**.

* For each victim, if the SP is higher than the victims's Defense, the
difference between them represents the damage done.

#### Magical Burst

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the difference between them
represents the damage done.

* The range is equal to one third of the SP, in meters. Every character within
this range gets hit, so **beware of friendly fire**.

#### Occult Force

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets pushed by a
distance equals to the SP subtracted by the target's Toughness.

* The path of the push is defined by the caster.

* If a collision happens, the characters involved in the collision receive 1
damage, each.

* The maximum number of colliding characters is 2.

#### Heal

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* Heals the target by one third of the SP.

#### Bolster

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* The target receives a Bolster mark of level SP.

* The Bolster mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

* A character with a Bolster mark of level SP, when rolling for its highest
attribute, cannot get a final score lower than SP.

* Characters marked with Bolster are not allowed to cast Bolster.

#### Dispell

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* Removes any mark of level below SP
