---
title: 6. Perks
description: Extra abilities for gameplay
---

# 6. Perks

## 6.1. Close-range combat

### 6.1.1. General perks

#### Thirst for Blood

If an attack made with a close-range weapon brings the target's HP down to 0,
the player may choose another target. Upon choosing it, the character moves
towards it and, if possible, attacks it with another close-range attack.

The path towards the new target must be the shortest known one. The score for
the movement range is calculated with a new roll for Motion and the damage dealt
to the new target is equal to the excess of damage dealt to the previous one,
piercing the new target's Defense.

#### Dash Attack

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving towards it,
the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Side Slash

When performing a close-range attack on a target right after moving from a cell
that is adjacent to that target to another cell that is also adjacent to that
target, the character gets 1 extra point on the final score of the roll.

#### Vengeful Scar

On the first turn after getting hit by a long-range attack, the character rolls
for Motion with a Superiority modifier if moving towards the attacker through
the shortest known path.

#### Confident Blow

On the first turn after completely defending an attack or a skill from a target,
when attacking that same target, apply the Superiority roll modifier.

### 6.1.2. Strength perks

#### Made of Stone

Upon completelly defending an attack or a skill, the character's Defense is
increased by 1 until the beginning of its next turn.

#### Defensive Nerves

Upon completelly defending an attack or a skill, the character is healed by 1
point. If the agressor rolled with an Advantage modifier, the healing amount
is 2, instead. If the agressor rolled with a Superiority modifier, the healing
amount is 3, instead.

#### Die Hard

If the character's health is below one quarter of its maximum Health Points, add
one third of its Strength to the character's Defense.

## 6.2. Long-range combat

### 6.2.1. Dexterity perks

#### The Running Shooter

The character can move and attack with a long-range weapon at the same time. To
do so, roll for Motion and then roll for Dexterity. Choose the character's
destination, the cell from which the character will shoot and the target.

#### Deadly Tower

If the character hasn't moved since the last attack with a long-range weapon,
when rolling for Dexterity to perfor an attack with a long-range weapon, add 1
extra point to the final score of the roll. This (cummulative) effect only wears
off upon moving.

#### Sharp Shooter

The character becomes able to attack more than 1 target at the same time without
applying Disadvantage or Inferiority roll modifiers.

#### True Sight

When attacking with a long-range weapon, the maximum range limit is increased by
half of the character's Dexterity. If the character's Dexterity is odd, add 1 to
it before dividing by 2.

#### Power Strafe

When attacking with a long-range weapon, each die explosion can be used to deal
extra damage to other character within the attack range and who weren't hit yet
on this turn.

### 6.2.2. Magicy perks

#### Trickery Casts

When rolling for Motion **after** rolling for Magicy in the same turn, apply
the Superiority modifier.

#### Bouncing Energy

When dice explode on Magical Bolts, extra damage can be applied to enemies
other than the initial target. The extra damage is equal to the total explosion
score and the extra number of targets is equal to the number of explosions.

Such damage pierces Defense, but the affected enemies must be within the Magical
Bolt range (from the caster).

#### Bigger Bombs

Magical Bombs can have radii of 2m instead of 1m, if intended by the caster.

#### Hazard

After casting Magical Burst and calculating the explosion range, the damage is
increased by the number of victims within the area of effect.

#### Burst Mastery

The character becomes able to limit the radius of Magical Burst as intended.

#### Urgent Healer

When casting Heal on a target who's below one third of its total Health Points,
apply the Superiority modifier.

#### Source of Health

For each explosion that happens when the character casts Heal, a character that
hasn't been healed yet on this turn can be healed by half of the exploded score.
If the exploded score is odd, add 1 to it before dividing by 2.

#### Brave Medic

When casting Heal on someone else from a distance of 1m, add one third of the
character's Magicy to the amount healed.

#### Dispellary

When successfully dispelling a mark, the character becomes able to dispell
another mark whose level is lesser than the first one's. This second mark
dispell does not trigger Dispellary.

#### Dispell Mastery

When dispelling a mark of level *X*, reaching a skill power of *X* - 1 is enough
to succeed.

#### Divine Bolster

Characters under the effect of your Bolster marks are also blessed with one
extra point of Defense, Toughness and Willpower.
