---
title: 6. Skills
description: Skills
---

# 6. Skills

#### Frenzy

* Roll for: Strength

* Hits all characters within a distance of 1m, so **beware of friendly fire**.

* The damage on each victim is equal to the SP minus its Defense. Damage amounts
below 1 have no effect.

* The character receives a Frenzy mark of level SP, which lasts until the
beginning of its next turn.

* A character with a Frenzy mark loses one point of Defense, Willpower and
Toughness.

#### Bash

* Roll for: Strength

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Bash mark of level SP.

* A character with a Bash mark rolls with the Disadivantage modifier.

* The Bash mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

#### Demoralize

* Roll for: Strength

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Willpower, the target gets marked with a
Demoralized mark of level SP.

* A character marked with Demoralized is unable to have explosions on rolls.

* The Demoralized mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

#### Strong Kick

* Roll for: Strength

* The maximum range is equal to 1m

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets pushed by a
distance equal to the SP subtracted by the target's Toughness, in meters.

* The path of the push is defined by the kicker.

* If a collision happens, the characters involved in the collision receive 1
damage, each.

* The maximum number of colliding characters is 2.

#### Provoke

* Roll for: Volition

* The maximum range is equal to 5 + Volition, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Willpower, the target gets marked with a
Provoke mark of level SP.

* The Provoke mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

* A character with a Provoke mark isn't be able to target anyone else but the
character who casted Provoke on it.

* A character with a Provoke mark gets Advantage on all of its rolls.

#### Crippling Poison

* Roll for: Dexterity

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Crippled mark of level SP.

* A character with a Crippled mark will have the Inferiority modifier applied to
its next rolls for Motion.

* The Crippled mark wears off in the end of the combat.

#### Intoxicating Poison

* Roll for: Dexterity

* The maximum range is equal to 1m.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets marked with a
Intoxicated mark of level SP.

* A character with an Intoxicated mark will receive 1 damage in the beginning of
each of its turns.

* The Intoxicated mark wears off in the end of the combat.

#### Magical Bolt

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to 5 + Magicy, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the difference between them
represents the damage done.

#### Magical Explosion

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to Magicy, in meters.

* The explosion hits a target and all characters around it, so **beware of
friendly fire**.

* For each victim, if the SP is higher than the victims's Defense, the
difference between them represents the damage done.

#### Magical Burst

* Roll for: Magicy

* If the SP is higher than the target's Defense, the difference between them
represents the damage done.

* The range is equal to one third of the SP, in meters. Every character within
this range gets hit, so **beware of friendly fire**.

#### Occult Force

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* If the SP is higher than the target's Toughness, the target gets pushed by a
distance equals to the SP subtracted by the target's Toughness.

* The path of the push is defined by the caster.

* If a collision happens, the characters involved in the collision receive 1
damage, each.

* The maximum number of colliding characters is 2.

#### Heal

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* Heals the target by one third of the SP.

#### Bolster

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* The target receives a Bolster mark of level SP.

* The Bolster mark wears off in the end of the target's next turn.

* A character with a Bolster mark of level SP, when rolling for its highest
attribute, cannot get a final score lower than SP.

* Characters marked with Bolster are not allowed to cast Bolster.

#### Dispell

* Roll for: Magicy

* The maximum range is equal to the Magicy level, in meters.

* Removes any mark of level below SP
